Chapter 8. Virtual RoboCup

73

Chapter 8

Virtual RoboCup
8.1 General
Since the start of the the Covid-19 pandemic, the RoboCups could not take place in person. In 2021,
the first virtual RoboCup was hosted online, requiring teams to livestream their robots performance
in their own laboratory. A ruleset was created that made a fair competition possible, which may be
used for future online RoboCups.
Participating teams have to follow the guideline to provide an infrastructure that enables the TC and
OC to evaluate their performance and to communicate during the competitions. As the organization
of such an online event is rather new for everyone and requires extended communication, every team
should join the official RoboCup@Work discord server (see 2.2.2). Announcements will be made via
specific channels on this server. Please participate in discussions and ask questions if you have any.

8.2 Arena Setup
As all teams will have different laboratory setups and some may not have the same resources (open
space, workstations, etc.) as others, no fixed arena design will be used for a virtual RoboCup@Work.
We expect that this would either exclude some teams from the competitions or limit others in their
test scenario design, which is why every team may design their own arena.
However, to ensure that the different robot performances can be compared using the existing scoring
system (5.4), some rules are defined to encourage teams to create challenging arena designs. In
addition to the basic rules described in 3.2, teams are required to consider:
• The size of the Arena must be atleast 4m x 2m
• The table placements should force the robot to move around the arena (not all the tables are
next to each other)
• Workstations should be accessible via multiple paths, so one of them may be blocked with
obstacles (8.1 orange dots). Some space must be available for non-blocking obstacles (8.1
dark green dots).
• Tables with the heights defined in (5.4) have to be provided (margin = 2cm). If a team doesn’t
have enough workstations of one type for a test, the TC may allow alternative table heights to

RoboCup@Work Rulebook / Release 1.0 version for RoboCup 2024

74

8.2 Arena Setup
be used (especially BTT2, ATTs and Final). This rule does not apply for the Rotating Table,
the Shelf and the Precise Placement station.
• PPT cavities (a)-(f) (see 3.9) must be provided. Teams may 3D print the cavities using
the files in the leagues github. Standing objects are excluded. It must be possible to place
N P LACE + 2 next to each other, so that atleast two decoy cavities can be used.
• Required arbitrary surfaces types: artificial grass, pvc floor / wood, mirror / aluminum foil,
(plexi-)glass. These can be found in your local homedepot. (See fig. 8.2(b))
• One path blocking and one small obstacle must be available both for physical objects and
barriertape. (See fig. 8.2(a))

Figure 8.1 shows one possible example of an arena configuration in a small area. Table heights are
measured in cm. The orange dots mark possible path blockades, while the dark green lines mark
optional obstacle placements.

Figure 8.1: Example Arena for a small VRC Setup — Left: Annotated map - Right: Real Image

(a) Obstacle Placements

(b) Arbitrary Surfaces

Figure 8.2: Example obstacle placements and arbitrary surfaces

RoboCup@Work Rulebook / Release 1.0 version for RoboCup 2024

Chapter 8. Virtual RoboCup

75

8.3 Files required from Teams
To enable the committee to generate fair tasks for every team, teams must provide detailed information about their arena and object inventory 1 month prior to the first competition day. A zip-folder
containing the following data must be sent via our discord server:
• Atleast two images of the arena from different perspectives. If two cannot cover the whole
arena, teams must provide as many as needed.
• A map of the arena with workstations marked (name + height). Teams may use an RVIZ
screenshot containing the grid (1m cell size) and the occupancy grid (your map), which may
be annotated using e.g. gimp (see also 8.1).
• A list of available workstations in their arena (height and amount).
• Images of the available arbitrary surfaces
• Images of the available barriertape and obstacles
• A list of available objects and containers (amount)
• Image of the objects and containers
• Images of the robot (all sides)
• Robot dimensions in meter
• Which tests the team intends to participate in
• atWork-commande launchfiles
The folder must be named VRC-YEAR-info-TEAM-NAME and shall contain the subfolders ARENA,
OBSTACLES, OBJECT, ROBOT, TESTS, REFBOX. File names must contain information about
the data (e.g. Arena-Image-1) and must not have default names (e.g. IMG2012).

8.4 Qualification for the competitions
The TC will decide if the individual arenas qualify for the tests defined in 5.4. The main requirements
are already specified in 8.2, while the table describes individual task requirements more precisely.
If an arena does not qualify, the TC must notify the team 3 weeks before competition starts, briefing
the team about shortcomings and possible solutions. The team then has 1 week to follow the TCs
advice and provide a new zip-folder. If an arena does not qualify for a test, the TC may decide
to exclude the associated team from those. If an arena only partly qualifies (e.g. no barriertape
available), score adjustments can be made.

8.5 Camera Setup
Since the referees are not present at the arena during the Virtual RoboCup, the arena and all activities
of the robot must be shown via livestream. For this purpose, cameras must be able to monitor the
entire arena for the referees and the cameras should be mounted at least at head height. No blind
spots are allowed when streaming the arena, so that the referees can see and evaluate every activity

RoboCup@Work Rulebook / Release 1.0 version for RoboCup 2024

76

8.6 Task Generation

of the robot. Furthermore, the PC used to start the runs should also be monitored with the cameras
so that the referees can observe every interaction with the PC. One or more cameras can be used to
stream the arena. The OC will announce the streaming software used and the maximum number of
livestreams available before the competition.
In addition to the cameras for the arena, there must be a person who follows the robot with a mobile
camera and shows the robot’s activities from close up. This allows the referees to detect even small
mistakes. The person is allowed to enter the arena during the run. However, the person is not
allowed to interact with the robot.
A camera may also be attached to the robot to better show the robot’s activities to the referees and
spectators. The camera on the robot is optional.

8.6 Task Generation
The new atWork-commander implementation, which can be found here (https://github.com/robocupat-work/atwork-commander), gives great opportunity to generate individual tasks for every participating team.
We advise all teams to use and test the new Atwork Commander. Teams must send configuration
files for the new Atwork Commander with their arena design, so that the TC/OC can generate tasks
for their arena. The config file for the arena shall contain the workstation names and heights and the
available objects for a team. Teams may contact the committee via Discord if they face problems
with this.
As normally the atWork-commander would be provided by the OC onsite, no actual atWork-commander
will be used during the online competition. The OC will create the tasks for the tests using the official
atWork-commander and the parameters provided by the teams. For each test, a single bagfile (10s)
will be recorded which contains all topics published by the atwork commander.
Teams must be able to play a bagfile on an external computer, which is connected to the robot via
WiFi. The bagfile then must be played to start a competition. The robot should receive the task
and start with the execution phase.
To prevent incompatible bagfiles during the competition, the OC will provide test bagfiles 2 weeks
before official competitions begin. The working parameter and launchfiles will be saved and used to
generate the specific task bagfiles for the competition.

8.7 Competition Test Procedure
8.7.1 Preparation
Before a test begins, the OC will announce obstacle placements, object positions and arbitrary surface
application to a team 10 minutes prior to their timeslot. Teams must prepare the arena accordingly.

RoboCup@Work Rulebook / Release 1.0 version for RoboCup 2024

Chapter 8. Virtual RoboCup

77

The task bagfile will be sent out to the team 5 minutes before their official timeslot. Note: The
durations may be modified during the competitions if they show to be unsuitable.

8.7.2 Test Start
The OC may count down before a competition (3, 2, 1, go), after which they start a timer according
to the test durations in 5.4. On GO command, the active team may access the keyboard of the
remote pc only to start the bagfile. The cameraman/-woman must show that to the audience.

8.7.3 Test Run
The audience and especially the refs watch the livestream and rate the performance. In case of a
major collision or any other reason for a restart, the remote pc keyboard may be accessed to restart
the robot and the bagfile. The replay of the bagfile command must be shown to the audience once
again, and afterwards the keybord must not be used anymore.

8.7.4 Test End
The run ends when the timer is up, with an optional margin of five seconds due to the possible
network delay. The refs then gather and discuss their performance evaluation.

8.8 Scoring
The different arena setups make time bonuses unfair and therefore they wont be awarded. The rest
of the scoring will be the same as in a normal robocup scenario, with score/runtime adjustments
and/or penalty points possible to compensate for missing test elements (see 8.2). Such adjustments
could be:
• The runtime for a test may be reduced if the arena is very small
• If no barriertape is available, all penalty points for crossing will be applied
• If no arbitrary surface is available, the object to pick will also be removed.
• No containers = no placement points given
Depending on the arena setups of all teams, these rules will be defined more precisely before the
competitions begin.

RoboCup@Work Rulebook / Release 1.0 version for RoboCup 2024

78

8.9 Technical Challenges

8.9 Technical Challenges
A virtual robocup will focus on the main competition. No technical challenges will be performed
during the official competitions. As some teams still requested technical challenges, we accept
submissions by video. This is because that we expect a relatively tight schedule due to the different
time zones of the teams and we are unsure if the technical challenges may be performed otherwise.
As the challenges do not count into the official scoring, teams are allowed to modify their arena.
They still must stick to the rules defined in ??. The bagfile for the specific challenge will be sent
out to the teams on the first day of the competitions. Teams are required to record a video of their
challenge with a camera setup similar to 8.5, which must be cut in a way that it is possible to see
every region of interest (robot, no operator on pc, arena) at all times. The video must be rendered
to mp4 format and uploaded to a cloud (e.g. onedrive). Teams must provide a link to their video
via our discord server with the deadline set to last competition day, more specificly the beginning of
the final runs.
The committee will review all submissions and rate the individual performances with the help of
the referee team after the finals have been completed. Videos that exceed the deadline will not be
reviewed and the teams participation in the challenge will be cancelled.

RoboCup@Work Rulebook / Release 1.0 version for RoboCup 2024

